# Accessibility Report for StockSim

## 1. Equitable Use

### **Implemented Features:**

- StockSim aims to be accessible to all users, including those with
  disabilities, by maintaining a straightforward interface that minimizes the
  need for fine motor skills. While the current version lacks certain
  accessibility-specific features, the foundational design is simple enough that
  users from various backgrounds can navigate it without requiring specialized
  assistance.

- StockSim provides a simulated trading experience for users regardless of their
  financial status, allowing equal access to stock trading education without
  requiring real monetary investments.

- The design is consistent across all user accounts, ensuring no specific user
  group is given an advantage. All users have access to the same set of features
  and tools.

- All features of StockSim, such as viewing portfolios, trading, and reviewing
  transaction history, are available to all users without limitation, ensuring
  there is no segregation based on user account type.

### **Future Features:**

- To ensure the app can be used by individuals with disabilities, we could
  integrate screen reader compatibility, which will assist visually impaired
  users in understanding all elements on the screen.

- Providing alternative input methods, such as voice commands, would allow users
  with physical disabilities to engage with the platform without requiring the
  use of a mouse or keyboard.

- Adding customizable accessibility settings, such as a high-contrast mode and
  adjustable text sizes, would make the application more user-friendly for
  individuals with visual impairments or other accessibility needs.

- Adding descriptive tags to all non-text elements, such as images or icons, so
  that these elements can be conveyed through audio. Using Accessible Rich
  Internet Applications (ARIA) properties, we could make complex components like
  the stock table more comprehensible by allowing screen readers to announce
  each table header and associated data as users navigate it, making stock
  performance information easy to interpret without needing to see the screen.

- We could implement a feature that adjusts the complexity of the interface
  based on a user's experience level, providing a simpler version for beginners
  and a more detailed view for advanced users. To achieve this, we would create
  a user profile system that tracks user experience, either through explicit
  input (e.g., users self-identify their experience level during onboarding) or
  implicit behavior tracking (e.g., the system records user actions to assess
  familiarity).

- Integrating multi-language support would make the design appealing and usable
  for a more diverse audience, avoiding any exclusion due to language barriers.
  This could be implemented by creating a translation module that supports
  multiple languages. Users could select their preferred language during
  onboarding or change it later in the settings. Proper translations and
  culturally relevant symbols or phrases would ensure that users from different
  backgrounds feel included and comfortable navigating the app.

- Implementing privacy measures that are consistent for all users, such as
  end-to-end encryption, would enhance trust and ensure equitable privacy
  standards. This could involve encrypting all user communications and data
  transfers, ensuring that any data being transmitted over the network is
  protected against interception or tampering. End-to-end encryption guarantees
  that only the intended recipients can access the contents, providing an added
  layer of security for all users without exception.

- Developing specific assistive features, such as keyboard navigation shortcuts
  or touch-based gesture controls, could ensure that users with different
  physical abilities can operate the app comfortably. This feature would enable
  users with mobility limitations to access StockSim with greater ease, thus
  making the app more inclusive.

- Creating tailored educational resources to introduce users to StockSim's
  functionalities could also contribute to equitable use. By providing resources
  in various formats, such as video, text, and interactive tutorials, the app
  could address different learning preferences and capabilities.

- Implementing an emergency contact feature that provides instant support for
  users facing issues in navigating the app or performing critical actions could
  also ensure equitable support. This feature would provide a chat or hotline
  service, allowing users to ask questions and receive guidance in real-time.
  This is especially important for users who might not be well-versed in digital
  interactions, thereby promoting equal access.

## 2. Flexibility in Use

### **Implemented Features:**

- The application allows users to log in, view their portfolios, trade stocks,
  and review their transaction history at their own pace.

- Users can choose between buying and selling stocks, offering a variety of
  interaction methods to suit different investment strategies and goals.

- The use of different panels (e.g., Portfolio Panel, Trade Panel) provides
  flexibility in navigating between various aspects of stock trading, allowing
  users to choose their flow.

- StockSim allows users to choose between different financial instruments and
  strategies, which caters to users with varying levels of investment knowledge
  and personal preferences. This flexibility supports diverse user competencies,
  from beginners who prefer to invest in established companies to advanced users
  exploring higher-risk stocks.

- Users have the option to manually input trade quantity allowing for
  flexibility in how they interact with the platform.

- The application incorporates input validation checks to ensure accuracy when
  users enter stock quantities or prices. This feature helps users avoid common
  mistakes like entering incorrect values, enhancing precision in their trades.

- Since our app can only be operated on a computer, there are limitations in
  this regard. Currently, users are restricted to desktop and laptop devices,
  which limits accessibility to those who primarily use tablets or smartphones.

### **Future Features:**

- We could add voice command capabilities or custom workflows that cater to
  users with different preferences or physical abilities, thereby offering even
  more flexibility.

- Introducing advanced search and filter options to enable users to find
  specific stocks or data quickly would also cater to users with different skill
  levels. For instance, beginners might need guided searches, whereas advanced
  users would benefit from customized filters.

- Implementing an adaptive interface that responds to user behavior could help
  cater to different levels of experience. For instance, a beginner mode could
  highlight important areas of the UI and offer hints, while an expert mode
  could provide more detailed analytics and fewer prompts.

- Developing a fully responsive mobile version of the app would ensure that
  StockSim can be used seamlessly across a range of devices, including
  smartphones and tablets, making it accessible for users who prefer those
  platforms.

- Introducing customizable shortcuts and quick-action buttons to allow
  experienced users to streamline their workflow, making common tasks faster and
  more intuitive.

- We could develop a "practice mode" that provides users with more detailed
  walkthroughs and suggestions while executing trades. This would help users
  increase their accuracy and precision while learning the app.

- Implementing predictive suggestions for commonly traded stocks or strategies
  could also assist users in making more accurate choices, thus minimizing
  errors and providing a better experience.

- We could also implement a magnification feature that allows users to zoom in
  on specific data fields for improved readability and precision, particularly
  useful when entering numerical data.

- Add a language selectable feature to make it accessible to people with
  different language backgrounds.

## 3. Simple and intuitive use

### **Implemented Features:**

- The design includes consistent use of icons and terminology across the entire
  interface. Buttons such as "Buy," "Sell," and "Log In" are clearly labeled,
  and feedback is provided to the user for each action, ensuring intuitiveness.

- Key information, such as portfolio values and transaction details, is arranged
  in a manner consistent with its importance, minimizing user confusion.

- The use of pre-filled forms helps to eliminate unnecessary complexity for
  user's portfolios, making it easier for users to complete daily tasks.

- Error messages and confirmation dialogs are designed to provide users with
  clear instructions on how to proceed in case of an error, making it easy for
  users to recover from mistakes.

- Simple, task-oriented labels (e.g., "Place Order", "View Portfolio") help
  users easily identify actions they need to take, reducing cognitive load and
  making the interaction more direct.

- The consistent layout of panels, such as the left-hand side navigation for
  market overview and order entries on the right, helps users easily predict
  where to find key functionalities and supports intuitive navigation.

### **Future Features:**

- We could include a user onboarding experience, like a brief walkthrough or
  guided tour of the platform for new users to help them understand key features
  and workflows

- Adding tooltips and contextual help would make the program more accessible to
  users with a wide range of experience, helping them understand the financial
  terms intuitively.

- Adding a Frequently Asked Questions (FAQ) section or in-app help center to
  provide users with on-demand answers to common questions about the app's
  usage.

- Implementing a step-by-step wizard for new users to make their first trade
  could greatly simplify the initial user experience and ensure that users do
  not feel overwhelmed by the complexity of the platform.

- Creating a glossary of common stock trading terms, accessible directly from
  the app interface, would help beginners quickly understand terminology without
  needing to leave the platform.

- Introducing customizable shortcuts and quick-action buttons to allow
  experienced users to streamline their workflow, making common tasks faster and
  more intuitive.

- Implementing a more modular and customizable dashboard where users can decide
  what elements are visible could make the interface simpler and more focused
  based on individual needs and preferences.

- Adding a functionality to jump between all interfaces under the main, so that
  users can use the app more conveniently.

# 4. Perceptible Information

### **Implemented Features:**

- Dialog boxes provide visual feedback, such as confirmation of successful
  trades or warnings for invalid inputs, making the system’s responses clear.

- Labels, text, and buttons have been designed to provide perceptible
  information to all users. Text labels accompany each input component, and key
  information is displayed in a consistent format.

### **Future Features:**

- Adding a high-contrast mode for users with visual impairments would help
  improve the legibility of essential information.

- Providing colors and visual indicators to differentiate between key
  activities, such as red for sell actions and green for buy actions, ensures
  clarity.

- Enhancing the layout to make important information more visually prominent,
  such as using larger fonts for key metrics and adding emphasis effects (e.g.,
  highlighting or bolding) for changes in financial data, would help improve
  perception.

## 5. Tolerance for Error

### **Implemented Features:**

- Error messages are informative and guide users on how to correct their
  mistakes, minimizing the chance of repeated errors.

- The program includes checks that prevent invalid trades, such as attempting to
  sell more stock than owned or entering a negative quantity. Users receive
  clear error messages to help them understand what went wrong.

### **Future Features:**

- We could add an "Undo" button or a confirmation dialog for critical actions,
  such as executing trades, to further protect users from errors.

- Introducing automated suggestions when common errors are detected could help
  users understand better alternatives and avoid pitfalls.

- Providing a log of previous actions and allowing users to revert to a previous
  state could minimize the impact of user errors.

- Adding a 'Simulated Trial' feature for risky trades, allowing users to see the
  hypothetical outcome before committing.

- Adding confirmation dialogs are used before executing critical actions, like
  buying or selling stocks, to ensure users intend to proceed.

- Session timeouts are better to be implemented for security purposes, reducing
  the risk of unintended transactions if a user forgets to log out.

## 6. Low Physical Effort

### **Implemented Features:**

- Actions within StockSim are designed to require minimal physical effort. Users
  can navigate the interface using simple clicks, and forms are kept concise to
  reduce typing effort.

- The use of visible buttons helps reduce the precision required for users to
  interact with the interface, reducing physical strain.

- Login sessions are kept active, minimizing the need for repetitive logins and
  thus reducing user effort.

### **Future Features:**

- Adding keyboard shortcuts for frequently used actions would help users who
  prefer using the keyboard over the mouse, making interactions quicker and less
  physically demanding.

- Enabling gesture-based controls for a mobile version could help users interact
  with the application more efficiently, especially on touch devices.

- Introducing auto-fill features to pre-populate forms based on previous user
  inputs could also reduce repetitive typing.

- Providing voice command functionality for executing common actions could
  minimize physical input effort, making the app more accessible for users with
  mobility issues.

## 7. Size and Space for Approach and Use

### **Implemented Features:**

- The current design uses consistent button sizes and spacing to ensure
  usability for public users.

- interface components are placed in such a way as to ensure that all important
  elements are within reach without the need for particularly refined motor
  skills.

- Input fields and clickable elements are positioned to allow comfortable reach
  for public user, reducing the need for precision.

### **Future Features:**

- Allowing users to customize the size of buttons and text would make it easier
  for users with specific needs to adjust the interface to their comfort.

- Creating different layout profiles for desktop, tablet, and mobile use could
  ensure an optimal experience regardless of device type or user posture.

- Adding adjustable spacing between elements to accommodate users who may
  require more or less space between clickable components would improve
  accessibility for more broad range of users, especially for elderly people.

- Adding descriptive labels to buttons and input fields is crucial. Labels
  should be explicit in conveying what the function is, without relying on
  visual elements alone. For example, rather than just using a search icon, we
  can include text such as "Search Stocks" which can be read by the screen
  reader.

- we could optimize the layout of our application by strategically placing the
  most important features at the center of the view or easily accessible
  sections. This could include making essential elements larger, and simplifying
  the design layout by reducing visual clutter, which ensures that all users can
  easily focus on the important elements of the page.

## Target Audience

If StockSim were to be marketed or licensed to customers, the primary audience
would be beginner to intermediate retail investors interested in learning more
about the stock market in a safe, simulated environment. The program is targeted
towards people who may be curious about stock trading but are hesitant to invest
real money without gaining some experience first. This includes students
studying finance or economics, young professionals exploring investment options,
and hobbyists interested in the mechanics of trading. The app's goal is to
demystify stock trading by providing users with a realistic yet risk-free
environment to learn, practice, and refine their trading strategies.

The program could also be beneficial for educational institutions, such as high
schools or universities, that offer courses in finance or economics. By
licensing StockSim to these institutions, educators could use the platform as a
teaching tool to help students better understand financial concepts, market
behaviors, and investment strategies in a hands-on manner.

## Accessibility Considerations for Different Demographics

While StockSim aims to be as accessible as possible, certain demographics may be
less likely to use the program effectively without further development. For
example, individuals with visual impairments may find it challenging to interact
with the interface as it stands. We currently lack features like screen reader
compatibility, alternative text for images, or high-contrast modes, which are
crucial for visually impaired users. Moreover, older adults who may be
interested in learning about the stock market might struggle with navigating a
digital interface, especially if they lack familiarity with modern technology.

In terms of digital equity, those who do not have easy access to technology,
such as a stable internet connection or a capable computing device, may find it
challenging to use StockSim. Additionally, the current interface primarily uses
English, which may exclude non-English speakers. Including multi-language
support could make StockSim more accessible to a global audience. To fully
address these gaps, we need to invest in assistive technology features,
simplified interfaces, and localized content.
